I'm going to encourage everyone practicing meditating on the Te Choo practices. Te Choo is so
important.
What in the teaching said, "If we don't have the stable of the Te Choo, the Togal won't break the
lip of the Togal. Therefore, the Te Choo is so important."
The two meditations are whenever the Togal, where the Te Choo will start with joy and appreciation.
As I said many times, and you know, you all know we need this. We need joy and appreciation.
And such a meeting, such a great teaching that we have opportunity to practice this, and a meeting
to the Buddha teaching, is not just co-accident, according to the Buddha teaching, is very, very
important. Really, promote joy and appreciation.
We are soaked with the great teachings. Prominent great masters, one approach. How fortunate we are
. Really, we are soaked. We're not just one, it's a small teaching. We have so many great teachings.
Teachings. How fortunate it is. Now is our time. We have to make that, bring some result from that.
We have to do.
Teachings alone are not true. That's what Buddha says to you. "I show you the path. I show you the
path. But now it is up to you." Buddha said. It's true. Buddha gave the teaching. Buddha gave the
early techniques.
When we come to the practice, we have to put practice. If Buddha practice, that won't work to us.
Buddha written like already. Of course, Buddha gave the teaching. We got the teaching. But this, we
don't get enlightened because Buddha written like.
We have to do our share. Our share is put that in the practices. We have to do it. When we come to
practice, how we start? With joy, with appreciation.
How fortunate we are. How grateful we are. How graceful. Being graceful. We really should do that.
With that, then also we have great bodhicam. Longing kindness compared to your thought. Think of
this world, how many difficult tablas are going. Within this country, this is one of the great
countries.
Also, how many things difficult tablas are going. And outside of the world or this country, how
many difficult tablas are going on.
This is just only on the world, human level. How many beings are suffering? Really.
We really think that. And what we are doing is, there really is benefit to all good beings. Put our
mind, put our body together, our intention. Let that ripple effort to all the living beings. Really
wish that.
That's what those great masters teach. All those great beings.
That's how we can make the difference. Make change. Make a difference to the others. We can make a
difference. That is our practices.
So increase the bodhicam. Then the devotions. Bring the devotions. Join the devotions. Life is very
precious. It's not going to stay forever. That we know.
And then also, situation and circumstances are all in the right time. They're not going to let us.
We should play right in our time. And particularly this time, you all met a great kind of element,
a great organizer in your life and come here for about a month.
I mean this is how really my son feels that I did good. I did practice good. That's what we plan to
do. Kind of feel that. That's all. With that, then we do this with devotional practices at the
beginning times.
And of course you did group practice, we do target all that. But if you're alone, when you're
practicing alone, bring on your devotion, devotion, praise, this praise. All those are the words.
I'm going to play some words with great masters. As he said, it's not something that we wrote or I
wrote. It is really the words authentic, blessed words of the great master.
Read that. Join that. Make that as your own world. Make that meaning, apply that meaning to the
heart. Receive blessings. Feel strong presence. May I actually the realization of this life time,
as you great master did, please bless me that.
I can't make that urge. And then started only meditating. Meditating that I will say, what we have
to do, even though zuki meditation, our mind have to be stable.
Even if mind is not stable, zuki meditation is not happening. That means our conception is carrying
our thought and we are following up with that thought. That is called unstable.
During meditation our physical is kind of stable, sitting. But our thought and conception are
following up with thought, chasing up with thought. That thought is what in the teaching said, dual
ity.
What that duality is, that is very rude, very cause of samsara. That's called samsara. We were
wondering samsara. Zoki is beyond samsara. Zoki is beyond nirvana. We are not beyond. We are within
the territory.
We have to stay with thought. To make stable thought, maybe even if needed, do shamata meditation
for few seconds or few minutes. Make stable. And shamata has to, I mean you know all this. You all
know.
Shamata has to focus shamata, un-focus shamata. I will say, shamata with focus, use some object,
some imagination things and focus on that. Not let mind go out of that force.
So that will maybe help, not maybe it will help. Anchor down our mind. Anchor down our mind. Un
stable mind. Mind.
Then do the zokki meditation. One is mind step. One is zokki meditation. And even zokki meditation
is relaxing on the natural state of your own mind. Not doing anything.
But that's what always zokki teaching says. Effortless. Free from the effort. Effort is a
conception. Effort is that means samsara. Zokki is out of the samsara.
Samsara, zokki is out of the nirvana. Zokki is natural. Natural. Relaxing in a natural state.
Therefore many times they say, nothing to do. Relax.
Calm. Peaceful. Relax. Relax. Not forceful. Relax. And to do this, what in the teaching said always
, look to your mind. Who is going to look to your mind? Your mind or our mind, my mind is going to
look to my mind.
We are going to viewing the viewer. We are going to viewing the viewer. When you are viewing the
viewer, when you are looking to the looker, the subject and object are merged.
There is no subject and object. It is blended in. And you are relaxing in that state. Relax in that
state. Relaxing in open vastness. Relax in that state.
And where you are relaxing that, able to relax that. And occasionally, if you continue to stay in
that state, it is quite good. Occasionally, even if you are meditating strongly, bring more dev
otions.
Feel strong presence of the great master, Murugan Maasamma, or his only Dhanuran. Really bring up
that joy and feel how great as transcendental was to the rainbow body. Feel their blessing power.
And just for a few moments, again let that absorb. Let that dissolve back to where it came from.
Again, continue to relax in that natural state. Natural state. Continue to relax, expand.
In the Zogji teaching, what I will always say. Open, again, keep relaxing naturally. Everything.
All the senses are naturals. That means we are not changing anything about our senses.
Eye, ear, nose, tongue, body, or anything. Relaxing calmly, peacefully, and nothing changes. And
for those reasons, also in the teachings of the teachings said, "App is not too disturbance or not
too difficult." Open your eyes. Open your eyes.
And also in the teachings said, "Let breathing come from the mouth." Slightly open the mouth. More,
let it naturally come from the mouth.
And nostrils are the normal passage of the breathing. In the teachings said, "It's the passage of
the karma, the karmic wind. But if you reverse that, it naturally subside the karmic wind, force,
and allowing the western wind that will connect to the heart center." Heart, and it will bring more
clarity.
So, "F" is not too disturbance or not too difficult. Open the eyes. Slightly open the mouth. More,
let breathing come. Even the may come, let it be on the mouth.
Not again forceful or uncomfortable. Then, continue to relax. We are able to do that. We are able
to relax in that nature. We are very relaxing.
We are relaxing in our own, old, natural of the Buddha, some of the Buddha, as I said before, sub-
evident, some of the Buddha states. You are relaxing that state. You are relaxing, or we are
relaxing in dharmakaya states. That is dharmakaya.
For that reason, great Muslim, his whole duality, in his modern literature, what he said, "How
fortunate we are, as thankful we can revel our own dharmakaya right now."
He didn't teach and said, "That is what I am really teaching." He said, "Relax in that." And then,
concluding with again, with full of devotion, graceful devotion and delicately merit.
Merit. Okay, so that is my brief talk for today, and then I think we will stop here, but we will
answer the questions of the hour tomorrow.